A Guide to Post-Truth
---------------------

What is truth?

Broadly, truth can be divided into two categories. Firstly is truth from authority. Scripture and legislature follow this form of truth. The ten commandments are the ten commandments as the authoritative record defines them to be the ten commandments. If you are not of a semitic religion, you may not accept the authority of this, or indeed any, scripture, but nevertheless must concede that the ten commandments are as they are defined in the scripture as, even if they do not apply to you, there is no alternative definition of them. Truth from authority is hierarchical by nature.

The second category of truth is evident and self-evident truth, as in, "We hold these truths to be self-evident...." The prime self-evident truth is known as "Onus Probandi" and (as far as we have records) is Roman in origin. The reason it is self-evident is that, aliens with language, capable of disagreeing, with a peer relationship, would eventually identify "Onus Probandi" as the best method to settle arguments, because it is.

The peer-review lexicon is entirely dependent upon the truth of "Onus Probandi" as is the lexicon of judicial precedent. Evident truth relies upon "Onus Probandi" as does the concept of self-evident truth.

The peer-based nature of evident and self-evident truth makes it unpopular with hierarchical types who are accustomed to wielding power over others. A good example is Donald Trump attempting to ignore climate science he doesn't like. The story of the Indiana Pi Bill tells of a time where authoritative truth conflicted with evident truth. Where this happens, the authority is presented with a choice to adjust their authoritative truth to agree with (or at least not disagree with) evident truth, or lose credibility. The state of Indiana chose to amend the Indiana Pi Bill in the senate, as it is far easier to avoid losing credibility than regain lost credibility.

One of the more tragically comical authoritative truths was that the Iraqis had Weapons of Mass Destruction, deployable in 45 minutes. The source for this authoritative truth was the executive branch of the U.K. government. If the U.S. is fully prepared to not only send its own sons to die based on an authoritative truth of the U.K. executive with no backing in self-evident truth, but also to attempt to rally other nations to send their sons to die, why do they not let the U.K. executive set their tax rates too?

Sovereign Power
---------------

The U.S. war of independence was fought because Westminster typically refuses to give up sovereign power. A long time ago, the monarch delegated sovereign power to parliament, and having delegated it, could never undelegate it. Parliament knew that were it to delegate sovereign power over tax setting to the North American colonies, this power could never be undelegated. Hence they chose to fight the war of independence rather than cede independence to the colonies without a fight.

The U.K. system remains the most centralised system of administrating sovereign power in the world. Parliment retains sovereign power over the legislature, with the Scottish and Welsh devolved parliaments having designated powers reserved from their legislative competence by Westminster, subject to change at any time at the will of Westminster.

Of course, delegation is not the only way to lose sovereign power. One other is to lose credibility in one's ability to wield sovereign power competently.

Voting, Stock Exchanges and Fraud
---------------------------------

In academic studies of fraud, it is common to completely misunderstand the nature of ballot fraud and treat fraud as a 'dicit' claim. Under "Onus Probandi" a 'dicit' claim is the declarative claim, whereas the corresponding 'negat' claim is that the 'dicit' claim has not been, or cannot be substantiated. Where a 'dicit' claim is made, but not substantiated, this is fraud. Effectively every 'negat' claim is a claim of fraud, and every claim of fraud is a 'negat' claim. The method of proving a 'negat' claim is merely to show the 'dicit' claim has been made, as "Onus Probandi" dictates the burden of proof falls upon the entity making the 'dicit' claim.

Thus there is no objective 'dicit' fraud in ballots. From bell to bell, a Stock Exchange permits the trade of the only two parts of a company a person can own. The first is the right to share in dividend payouts made by the company, and the second is the right to vote in company meetings. One can quite legitimately stuff the ballot of a company meetings simply by buying votes at the stock exchange.

Basically, a ballot can be fair if nobody ever claims it to be fraudulent, but cannot be fraudulent if nobody ever claims it to be fair. Ballots at company meetings are not fair, and not democratic, but not fraudulent because nobody claims them to be fair or democratic.

In the case of congressional/senatorial/presidential/parliamentary elections, the legislature makes twin claims. Prior to the ballot, that the sale of voting rights for these ballots is unlawful, and subsequently, that the ballots are democratic, having been properly conducted, and are therefore authoritative of the will of the people.

Where a ballot has been defrauded, the subsequent claim of fairness becomes unsubstantiable.

The Scottish Independence Referendum
------------------------------------

So this leads to the Scottish Independence Referendum. Being an independence referendum, it was a matter of sovereign power. Being held in the UK, where sovereign power is wielded exclusively by Parliament (Parliamentary elections appoint the legislature. The senior executive is formed from the largest party in the legislature, and the senior judiciary positions are appointed by the executive.

This makes it quite interesting that the ~2.5 million people (~63% turnout) who could be persuaded by politicians to express an opinion on sovereign power in 2010 ballooned to ~3.7 million (85% turnout) in September 2014, then collapsed back to ~3 million by May 2015. All three ballots are about sovereign power. Westminster has a long history of fighting wars in preference to ceding sovereign power.

Of course, in September 2014, they didn't fight a war. 

One can tell this happened, because the 2 million No voters outnumber the not quite 2 million voters who voted in 2010 and didn't vote for the SNP. The results of the 2015 general election show the SNP had gained ~250,000 voters from the Liberal Democrats since 2010, ~350,000 voters from the Labour party and ~350,000 from habitual abstention.

The No campaign found a way to temporarily convert ~700,000 (13.5% turnout) abstainers into voting No. Fingerprint matching the Yes vote to the SNP vote shows the ~1.7 Yes voters in September '14 have a very similar geographic distribution to the ~1.5 million SNP voters in May '14.

By contrast, the No votes don't match the model of typical electoral behaviour. The Quebec '80, '92 and '95 referendums do, as do the '79 and '97 Scottish devolution referendums. 

Both the 2010 and 2015 general elections match the model of typical electoral behaviou of 'Spatial Correlations in vote statistics' (2010) Borgesi & Bouchard. Ther Scottish Independence Referendum of 2014 does not.

This paper finds that human opinion, as expressed at the ballot box, is unsurprisingly similar to the performance of every other system dominated by peer influence.

I've asked both Dr Walter Mebane of Michigan University, and Dr Dmitry Kobak of Tubingen University, both of whom have published recent papers on electoral fingerprinting and fraud detection if they know how the published results of the Scottish Independence Referendum can be shown to be evidently fair. Neither has provided an answer.

Where a ballot is actually fair, the accepted method to demonstrate its fairness is to argue that it is fair on the basis of some evidence that it is fair, since 'fair' is a 'dicit' claim. A quick check on Google will show absolutely nobody making any such argument, because no such evidence exists. 

The Scottish Parliament commissioned a legal inquiry, hamstrung by an incompetent remit, which found there was insufficient evidence of criminal activity to order the records of the Electoral Commission to be opened. This may well be so, but it doesn't magic up any evidence to prove Westminster's claim of fair conduct.

A supposed lack of evidence for fraud, is not evidence of fairness. As the 'negat' claim to Westminster's 'dicit' claim of fairness, the only evidence required to prove fraud is that a claim of fairness has been made. After that, it falls upon those claiming fairness to substantiate their 'dicit' claim under "Onus Probandi."

Conclusion
----------

The explicit claim of fairness is in the Edinburgh Agreement of 2012, where it claims the result should be fit to command confidence. Fit to command confidence means that a claim had sufficient substantiative evidence that any reasonable person, fit to apply "Onus Probandi," could be confident the claim was not fraudulent. i.e. it would be evidently true.

If, as the U.S. government does, you accept the Scottish Independence Referendum to be fair, you accept "Onus Probandi" had an exception in 2012 when the Edinburgh Agreement was signed. Given this exception remains undefined (defining the fraud one must ignore for the Scottish Independence Referendum to be fair merely draws attention to it) this exception to "Onus Probandi" must be general. 

Thus, Westminster has 'de facto' held "Onus Probandi" to be false by holding the Scottish Independence Referendum to be fit to command confidence without any substantiative evidence fit to command that confidence.

You can tell, because if there was sufficient evidence to show the Scottish Independence Referendum to be typical behaviour, this would prove the Borghesi model of typical electoral behaviour to be false. If the Scottish Independence Referendum is not fit to command enough confidence to disprove the Borghesi model despite wildly disagreeing with it, it is generally not fit to command confidence.

Without "Onus Probandi," the Declaration of Independence and the judiciary become a farce, since there are no evident or self-evident truths, only the fiat of authority.

If one is prepared to accept Iraqi WMDs, deliverable in 45 minutes, existed based upon the unsubstantiated claims of the U.K. government, how can one not accept the Scottish Independence Referendum is fair, based on the unsubstantiated claims of the U.K. government?

This is another way to lose sovereign power, by turning the law into a farce. The quickest is to hold "Onus Probandi" to be false, as it instantly turns all lawyers into frauds, by depriving them of the accepted method to demonstrate they aren't frauds.





